K8s feature: How to send logs to multiple locations using Sumo Logic Helm Chart Collection (#4128)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/send-data/kubernetes/collecting-logs.md

            manual_prefix_regexp: (\\{\".*|\\[?\\d{4}-\\d{1,2}-\\d{1,2}.\\d{2}:\\d{2}:\\d{2}.*)
```

> ## Sending data to multiple targets

Reviewer: We should also leave a note specifying this is available from v4.8.

Author: Added

It is possible to send logs to multiple locations. This section describes the following cases:

- Send logs simultaneously to Sumo Logic and other locations.
- Send all logs to Sumo Logic and part of it to other locations.
- Send logs selectively to multiple locations.

### Send logs simultaneously to Sumo Logic and other locations

In order to send data to Sumo Logic and other locations, `sumologic.logs.otelcol.extraExporters` should be used.

With the following configuration, data will be sent to both Sumo Logic and AWS S3:

```yaml
sumologic:
  logs:
    otelcol:
      extraExporters:
        ## define `awss3/production` exporter
        ## as no routing is defined, all data will go to this expoter in addition to the default one
        awss3:
          s3uploader:
              region: 'eu-central-1'
              s3_bucket: 'databucket'
              s3_prefix: 'metric'
              s3_partition: 'minute'
metadata:
  logs:
    statefulset:
      extraEnvVars:
        # Set env variables for awss3 exporter
        - name: AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
          value: "< YOUR AWS ACCESS KEY >"
        - name: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY

>           value: "< YOUR AWS SECRET ACCESS KEY >"

Reviewer: I'm not sure we should encourage this practice. At least in EKS, you would handle this authentication by adding an annotation to the Pod, allowing it to assume a given role with the right permissions. We should absolutely tell the user they need to ensure the necessary credentials are present in the Pod, though.

Reviewer 2: I agree, we documented something similar in the cloudwatch collector.

https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-kubernetes-collection/blob/main/deploy/helm/sumologic/templates/logs/collector/otelcol-cloudwatch/serviceaccount.yaml#L12

https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-kubernetes-collection/blob/main/docs/fargate.md#authenticate-with-cloudwatch

Author: I changed additional exporter to `sumologic/production` for all examples, as the main goal of this section is to explain concept of more complex routing than how to send data to AWS S3

```

### Send all logs to Sumo Logic and a part of it to other locations

> In case you want to send only part of logs to other location, you should use `sumologic.logs.otelcol.routing.table` in addition to `sumologic.logs.otelcol.extraExporters`.
> 
> In the following example, all logs are going to be sent to Sumo Logic, and in addition only logs from the `production` namespace are going to be sent to AWS S3.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you want to send only specific parts of logs to another location, you should use `sumologic.logs.otelcol.routing.table` along with `sumologic.logs.otelcol.extraExporters`.

In the following example, all logs are sent to Sumo Logic, while only the logs from the `production` namespace are also sent to AWS S3.
```

```yaml
sumologic:
  logs:
    otelcol:
      extraExporters:
        ## define `awss3/production` exporter
        awss3/production:
          s3uploader:
              region: 'eu-central-1'
              s3_bucket: 'databucket'
              s3_prefix: 'metric'
              s3_partition: 'minute'
      routing:
        table:
          ## send all logs from `production` namespace to `awss3/production` exporter
          ## as `useDefaultExporters` is set to `true` (default), all logs will be sent to `sumologic` as well
          - exporter: awss3/production
            statement: route() where resource.attributes["namespace"] == "production"
metadata:
  logs:
    statefulset:
      extraEnvVars:
        # Set env variables for awss3 exporter
        - name: AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
          value: "< YOUR AWS ACCESS KEY >"
        - name: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
          value: "< YOUR AWS SECRET ACCESS KEY >"
```

`sumologic.logs.otelcol.routing.table` is a list of maps, which consist of the keys `exporter` and `statement`.

> Logs are sent to `exporter` when `statement` is met. `exporter` should be defined in `sumologic.logs.otelcol.extraExporters`,
> or the default `sumologic` may be used. `statement` has to be written in
> [Open Telemetry Transformation Language](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/processor/routingprocessor/README.md#tech-preview-opentelemetry-transformation-language-statements-as-routing-conditions).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Logs are sent to `exporter` when `statement` is met. `exporter` should be defined in `sumologic.logs.otelcol.extraExporters`, or the default `sumologic` may be used. `statement` has to be written in [OpenTelemetry Transformation Language](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/processor/routingprocessor/README.md#tech-preview-opentelemetry-transformation-language-statements-as-routing-conditions).
```

:::note

> Remember to use [attributes after translation to Sumo Logic schema](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/sumologicprocessor#attribute-translation). For xample, use `namespace` instead of `k8s.namespace.name`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Remember to use [attributes after translation to Sumo Logic schema](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/sumologicprocessor#attribute-translation). For example, use `namespace` instead of `k8s.namespace.name`.
```

:::

:::note

> If a log matches multiple statements, it will be sent to all corresponding exporters.
> For example, the following routing table will send logs from the `production` namespace to `sumologic/production` and `awss3/production`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If a log matches multiple statements, it will be sent to all corresponding exporters. For example, the following routing table will send logs from the `production` namespace to `sumologic/production` and `awss3/production`:
```

- exporter: awss3/production
  statement: route() where resource.attributes["namespace"] == "production"
- exporter: sumologic/production
  statement: route() where resource.attributes["namespace"] == "production"
```

:::

### Send logs selectively to multiple locations

This scenario differs from the previous ones by not sending all logs to Sumo Logic. If you want to send some data to Sumo Logic and some (the same or other) data to other locations, you need to disable default exporters. Set `sumologic.logs.otelcol.useDefaultExporters` to `false,` and then set `sumologic.logs.otelcol.routing.fallbackExporters` to a list of exporters that are going to be used for the logs which do not match any of the routing table statements.

In the following example, logs from the `production` namespace are going to be sent to the production Sumo Logic exporter, and all remaining logs will be sent to the default Sumo Logic exporter:

```yaml
sumologic:
  logs:
    otelcol:
      ## useDefaultExporters set to false to stop sending all logs to default exporters
      useDefaultExporters: false
      extraExporters:
        ## define `sumologic/production` exporter
        sumologic/production:

>           endpoint: http://my-production-sumologic-otlp-source

Reviewer: This, I think we should move to an env variable mounted from a Secret in this configuration. This is what we do internally and it should probably be encouraged as a best practice.

Author: Done

            manual_prefix_regexp: (\\{\".*|\\[?\\d{4}-\\d{1,2}-\\d{1,2}.\\d{2}:\\d{2}:\\d{2}.*)
```

## Sending data to multiple targets

:::note

> This feature is available from version [v4.8.0](https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-kubernetes-collection/releases/tag/v4.7.1) of Kubernetes Helm Chart

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This feature is available from version [v4.8.0](https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-kubernetes-collection/releases/tag/v4.7.1) of Kubernetes Helm Chart.
```

```yaml
sumologic:
  logs:
    otelcol:
      ## useDefaultExporters set to false to stop sending all logs to default exporters
      useDefaultExporters: false
      extraExporters:
        ## define `sumologic/production` exporter
        sumologic/production:
          ## use environmental variable to set endpoint
          endpoint: ${PRODUCTION_ENDPOINT}
      routing:
        ## use sumologic as fallbackExporter, which means it will get all data which do not match any statement
        fallbackExporters:
          - sumologic
        table:
          ## send all logs from `production` namespace to `sumologic/production` exporter
          - exporter: sumologic/production
            statement: route() where resource.attributes["namespace"] == "production"
metadata:
  logs:
    statefulset:
      extraEnvVars:
        ## Set `PRODUCTION_ENDPOINT` env variable for `sumologic/production exporter` as `endpoint-production-logs` property of `sumologic-secrets` secret
        - name: PRODUCTION_ENDPOINT
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: sumologic-secrets
              key: endpoint-production-logs
```

> For the above example `sumologic-secrets` secret with `endpoint-production-logs` key in the Sumo Logic installation namespace is required.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For the example above, the `sumologic-secrets` secret with the `endpoint-production-logs` key is required in the Sumo Logic installation namespace.
```

Author: I applied it for two the same occurrences as well

Reviewer 3: thank you!
